https://coursera.org/share/3efc532c309ebd08637184ab90859924

About this Course
Taught by: Romeo Kienzler
IBM

Apache Spark is the de-facto standard for large scale data 
processing. This is the first course of a series of courses 
towards the IBM Advanced Data Science Specialization. We 
strongly believe that is is crucial for success to start 
learning a scalable data science platform since memory and 
CPU constraints are to most limiting factors when it comes 
to building advanced machine learning models.

In this course we teach you the fundamentals of Apache Spark 
using python and pyspark. We'll introduce Apache Spark in the 
first two weeks and learn how to apply it to compute basic 
exploratory and data pre-processing tasks in the last two weeks. 
Through this exercise you'll also be introduced to the most 
fundamental statistical measures and data visualization technologies.

This gives you enough knowledge to take over the role of a data 
engineer in any modern environment. But it gives you also the 
basis for advancing your career towards data science. 

After completing this course, you will be able to:
•	Describe how basic statistical measures, are used to reveal  patterns within the data 
•	Recognize data characteristics, patterns, trends, deviations or inconsistencies, and potential outliers.
•	Identify useful techniques for working with big data such as dimension reduction and feature selection methods 
•	Use advanced tools and charting libraries to:
      o	improve efficiency of analysis of big-data with partitioning and parallel analysis 
      o	Visualize the data in an number of 2D and 3D formats (Box Plot, Run Chart, Scatter Plot, Pareto Chart, and 
	Multidimensional Scaling)

For successful completion of the course, the following prerequisites are recommended: 
•	Basic programming skills in python
•	Basic math
•	Basic SQL (you can get it easily from https://www.coursera.org/learn/sql-data-science if needed)

In order to complete this course, the following technologies will be used:
(These technologies are introduced in the course as necessary so no previous knowledge is required.)
•	Jupyter notebooks (brought to you by IBM Watson Studio for free)
•	ApacheSpark (brought to you by IBM Watson Studio for free)
•	Python

We've been reported that some of the material in this course is too advanced. So in case you feel the same, 
please have a look at the following materials first before starting this course, we've been reported that this really helps.

Of course, you can give this course a try first and then in case you need, take the following courses / materials.

